Chapter seven after this Jesus went
about in Galilee he would not go about
in Judea because the Jews were seeking
to kill him now the Jews feast of booths
was at hand
so his brother said to him leave here
and go to Judea that your disciples also
may see the works you are doing for no
one works in secret if he seeks to be
known openly if you do these things show
yourself to the world for not even his
brothers believed in him jesus said to
them my time has not yet come but your
time is always here the world cannot
hate you but it hates me because I
testify about it
that its works are evil you go up to the
feast I am NOT going up to this feast
for my time has not yet fully come after
saying this he remained in Galilee but
after his brothers had gone up to the
feast then he also went up not publicly
but in private the Jews were looking for
him at the feast and saying where is he
and there was much muttering about him
among the people while some said he is a
good man others said no he is leading
the people astray yet for fear of the
Jews no one spoke openly of him about
the middle of the feast Jesus went up
into the temple and began teaching the
Jews therefore marveled saying how is it
that this man has learning when he has
never studied so jesus answered them my
teaching is not mine but his who sent me
if anyone's will is to do God's will he
will know whether the teaching is from
God or whether I am speaking on my own
authority the one who speaks on his own
authority seeks his own glory but the
one who seeks the glory of him who sent
him is true and in him there is no
falsehood has not Moses given you the
law yet none of you keeps the law why do
you seek to kill me the crowd answered
you have a demon who is seeking to kill
you jesus answered them
I did one work and you all marvel at it
Moses gave you circumcision not that it
is from Moses but from the fathers and
you circumcised a man on the Sabbath if
on the Sabbath a man receives
circumcision so that the law of Moses
may not be broken are you angry with me
because on the Sabbath I made a man's
whole body well do not judge by
appearances but judge with right
judgment some of the people of Jerusalem
therefore said is not this the man whom
they seek to kill and here he is
speaking openly and they say nothing to
him can it be that the authorities
really know that this is the Christ but
we know where this man comes from and
when the Christ appears no one will know
where he comes from
so Jesus proclaimed as he taught in the
temple you know me and you know where I
come from but I have not come with my
own accord he who sent me is true and
him you do not know I know him for I
come from him and he sent me so they
were seeking to arrest him but no one
laid a hand on him because his hour had
not yet come yet many of the people
believed in him they said when the
Christ appears will he do more signs
than this man has done the Pharisees
heard the crowd muttering these things
about him and the chief priests and
Pharisees sent officers to arrest him
Jesus then said I will be with you a
little longer and then I am going to him
who sent me you will seek me and you
will not find me where I am you cannot
come the Jews said to one another where
does this man intend to go that we will
not find him does he intend to go to the
dispersion among the Greeks and teach
the Greeks what does he mean by saying
you will seek me and you will not find
me and where I am you cannot come on the
last day of the feast the great day
Jesus stood up and cried out if anyone
thirsts let him come to me and drink
whoever believes in me as the scripture
has said out of his heart will flow
rivers of living water
now this he said about the Spirit whom
those who believed in him were to
receive for as yet the Spirit had not
been given because Jesus was not yet
glorified when they heard these words
some of the people said this really is
the prophet others said this is the
Christ but some said is the Christ to
come from Galilee has not the scripture
said that the Christ comes from the
offspring of David and comes from
Bethlehem the village where David was so
there was a division among the people
over him some of them wanted to arrest
him but no one laid hands on him the
officers then came to the chief priests
and Pharisees who said to them why did
you not bring him the officers answered
no one ever spoke like this man
the Pharisees answered them have you
also been deceived have any of the
authorities or the Pharisees believed in
him but this crowd that does not know
the law is it cursed Nicodemus who had
gone to him before and who is one of
them said to them does our law judge a
man without first giving him a hearing
and learning what he does they replied
are you from Galilee to search and see
that no prophet arises from Galilee